#Aim

Handling of local variables in subroutines by allocating space on stack.
Handling (local) arrays in MIPS
Assignment statement

#Write a MIPS program which:

allocates space on stack for a local integer variable n and a local array A of integers; give comments indicating how you would access in your program the memory location corresponding to n and A[i].
[Hint: Use the frame pointer $fp -- refer to pp A-23 --A-26 in Appendix A of Hennesey and Patterson for identifying how local variables are allocated space on the stack dynamically on entry to subroutines (recall that the main routine can be viewed as a subroutine for code generation) and the allocation is undone before exit thereby maintaining the locality of the local variables, incontrast to the global variables defined through the .rdata assembler commands.]

reads an integer with the prompt -- "Enter the count of elements to be read:"
reads that many integers (n) into an array, prompting for each integer -- "Enter the next element:"
finds the second largest among the n array elements and
prints the same within the message -- "The second largest number among [⟨comma separate list of the numbers in the array⟩] is ⟨the second largest number⟩."
Relevant documentation is made available via the notice page.

#Marking Guidelines

Assignment marking is to be done only after the deadline expires, as submissions gets blocked after the assignment is marked.

Marks are to the awarded as per the components indicated below.

Interactive interface, as specified	4
Allocation of local variables on stack	8
Appropriately accessing the local variables	5
Commenting of program	3
Total Marks	20
The breakup of marks should be entered as remarks as the sum of the marks given for each component (eg: 4+7+5+2)

Any deficiency in the student submission should also be entered as remarks (eg: "(b) global variables used instead of local variables (0/8); (d) comments are grossly inadequate (0/3)").

Assignment submission

Ensure that your program has the extension ".spim" (say perf.spim)

You name, roll number, group number, etc. should be available at the top of your submitted file, as comments.

You should also pick up your assignment statement and submit your assignment via the student tab of this course page.

You should keep submitting your incomplete assignment from time to time after making some progress, as you can submit any number of times before the deadline expires.

